{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f391\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f392\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f394\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f395\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f396\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f397\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f398\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f399\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f401\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f402\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f404\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f405\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f406\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f407\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f408\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f409\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f751\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}
{\f752\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f754\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f755\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f756\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f757\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}
{\f758\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f759\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f760\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid9523941 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2828084\rsid5571103\rsid8594920\rsid9523941}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\author Liliana West}
{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy28\hr22\min42}{\revtim\yr2007\mo5\dy30\hr12\min2}{\printim\yr2007\mo5\dy30\hr11\min4}{\version4}{\edmins17}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords598}{\nofchars3414}{\nofcharsws4004}{\vern16389}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot5571103 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 [goes with Hart movie pictures]
\par 
\par LON CHANEY AND WILLIAM S. HART
\par 
\par By Michael F. Blake
\par submitted by Jack C. Stewart
\par 
\par 
\par My friend Michael F. Blake is an authority on Lon Chaney, and has written three boo
ks about the man of 1000 faces.  He gave me good information when I took him on his first tour of the Hart House in December 2006.  He knew about the three "Two Gun Bill" statues when researching his Chaney books and had read about them in an old movie ma
g
azine from the mid 1920's.  He knew about the makeup in the three tins in Mary Ellen's bedroom and what year they were from.  At lunch one day he said he has some stills from Riddle Gawne (1918).  So I asked him to loan them to me (us).  In doing so he wr
ote the following.
\par 
\par From an email from Michael F. Blake
\par 
\par OK, here's the info on the film:
\par 
\par }{\i\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 Riddle Gawne }{\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 (1918) was the first film Lon Chaney made after leaving Universal Studios over a salary dispute.  He had been working steadily at Universal from 1913, bu
t when he asked for a raise to $125 a week and a five year contract (he was making $75 a week), the studio manager claimed he would never be worth $100 a week.  In 1923 Chaney returned to Universal to star in }{\i\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 
The Hunchback of Notre Dame }{\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 at a rate of $2,500 a week.)
\par 
\par Chaney left the studio and was certain he would work outside his :home: lot.  Weeks of unemployment grew into months with Chaney thinking of going back to Universal and take whatever he could get.
\par 
\par Lambent Hillier recommended Chaney to William S
. Hart for a role as the villain Hame Bozeman in Hart's next film.  At first Hart was reluctant because he filt Chaney was too short to appear opposite him.  Chaney was only 5' 1" Chaney's wife Hazel said that Lon spent several days at home building up hi
s shoes to give him the proper hight to play opposite Hart.  When he was granted his salary of $125 a week, she said the two of them felt as though they were rich.
\par 
\par Portions of }{\i\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 Riddle Gawne}{\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941  were shot on location in the Santa Monica Mountains and in chatswor
th, California.  The company built a western ranchero set on a nearby dairly farm, which was later burned to the ground for a scene in the movie.
\par 
\par SYNOPSIS:  Seeking revenge on the man who killed his brother and kidnapped his sister-in-law, Jefferson "Ridd
le" Gawne (Bill Hart) spends years searching for the killer.  Finally he settles down on his own ranch and falls for the lovely Kathleen Harkness (Kathrine Mac Donald), the daughter of a cattle rustler who is part of Hame Bozeman's (Lon Chaney) gang.  Ham
e
 Bozeman wants Kathleen for himself and has Gawne shot.  Gawne recovers and, fed up with the gang, gets rid of the sheriff who is in Bozeman's pocket, then leads a group of cowboys against the Bozeman gang.  Gawne learns that Bozeman has kidnapped Kathlee
n
 and rides to her rescue.  In a shootout Gawne is seriously wounded and overhears Bozeman claim that he killed Gawne's brother years ago.  Gawne gathers all his strength and manages to throw Bozeman off the cliff to his death.  Gawne recovers, thanks to t
he car of Kathleen.
\par 
\par CRITICAL REVIEWS:  The nature of the story and the typical Hart role that has been given the star to interpret crowds its way right up to the front lines and retains its position as one of Hart's best.  MOTION PICTURE NEWS
\par 
\par Well, Bill is as quick on the trigger as ever and puts this over with a wallop.  This has all the typical Hart elements with Bill standing off a whole gang...Lon Chaney was an effective villain.  WID'S FILM DAILY
\par 
\par Jack Stewart adds the following:  For anyone who would like to read Michael's books they can be found at Barns & Noble or from the author at michaelblake@sbcglobal.net.  His three Lon Chaney books are }{\i\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 
The films of Lon Chaney, A thousand Faces, and Lon Chaney "The Man Behind the Thousand Faces.  }{\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 He has also written "}{\i\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 
Code of Honor-The Making of Shane, High Noon & The Searchers, }{\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 as well as his recent book "}{\i\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 Hollywood and the O.K. Corral.}{\f1\fs18\insrsid5571103\charrsid9523941 
  Michael has a Master's Degree in Film History from UCLA and is an Emmy Award winning makeup artist.
\par }}