{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs32 \cf2 THE \'93GO-TO\'94 GUY
\f0\b0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 A slight breeze rustled the oak leaves in the rear yard of\'a0
\f2\i La Loma De Los Vientos
\f0\i0 \'a0as the nearly 100 year old handmade patio chair made a nearly imperceptible creaking sound when the spirit of its maker settled into his favorite relaxing location.\'a0 A few minutes later another image began to take form in the adjoining chair and then sat silent for a few minutes observing her companion before projecting a thought, \'93Bill, you look rather troubled\'85is something wrong?\'94\'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 With head hanging and a downcast expression the spirit of Bill Hart silently responded, \'93I\'92m afraid you caught me at a troubling time, Mary. My heart is saddened to see one of our most loyal and talented ranch hands getting ready to retire as he makes plans to mosey on down the trail to take up living at a spread he just purchased.\'a0 We are really going to miss that hombre, and it pains me to see him go\'85and yet I am happy for him and the new life he is anticipating.\'94
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \'93Are you thinking of Al Ewing?\'94 inquired Mary Hart\'92s image.\'a0 \'93I can\'92t imagine how our dream of a park is going to get along without him.\'a0 You know, Bill, he has been here for right about 12 years now, and we\'92ve watched him do some marvelous things. The dream for Hart Ranch which we put forth in our wills has really been taking shape with his imagination and talent combined with the help of some other really good people. He has been the Park\'92s go-to guy; so I understand why you have that hound dog look on your face.\'94
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \'93I couldn\'92t agree more, Mary, and I\'92ve got to tell you that it has really warmed my heart to sit up here on the hill and look down the slope at the visitors coming to our property and enjoying the Park.\'a0 Over the years we\'92ve been fortunate to have a number of volunteers putting on great events here, but Al just had the knack of coming up with a variety of entertaining activities which drew crowds, and I think I was most proud to be sitting on the grass down there by the ranch house while watching the families enjoying Al\'92s summer movie nights.\'94
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \'93I\'92m not surprised that you took a liking to the movies, but it was his craft and holiday events which caught my fancy\'94 Mary projected.\'a0 \'93You know we probably are not going to see another rascal like him around here again, but we can hope that someone new will wander in to the Park and offer to take up the slack.\'94
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \'93Mary, I appreciate the positive spin you can put on things when I\'92m feeling down\'85 an old galoot couldn\'92t have a better sis.\'a0 I hope that Al knows how much we have appreciated him.\'94
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \'93Bill, I\'92ve always felt that Al has been in touch with us\'85just look at how hard he has worked to carry out our dying wishes.\'a0 We both need to put that thought out, and I am sure that Al will pick it up and move on to his new life with the knowledge that we send him on his way with our heartfelt thanks and best wishes.\'94
\fs20 \

\fs32 \'a0
\fs20 \

\fs32 \'a0
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs32 \cf2 Al Ewing
\f0\b0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 Al Ewing was raised in the Antelope Valley and after a variety of careers, including serving 8 years in the Air Force, he arrived at Hart Park in 2007.\'a0 Before long, Al was busy working on a wide variety of events at the Park which brought his creativity and artistic and musical abilities into play.\'a0 Whether it was an art show, a quilting exhibit, a movie night or an afternoon concert in the Park, Al attacked them all with enthusiasm and the energy to make the events successful.\'a0 When the Friends of Hart Park sponsored an event, Al was always there to help in whatever way his talents might be best used.\'a0 Operating the sound system, acting as the DJ, putting out tables, or setting up a pop-up sun shade all fell within Al\'92s job description along with a myriad of other activities.\'a0 Al and his new bride, Linda, will soon be motoring off to Georgia to take possession of their 9 acre estate, and they have already begun to make plans for the types of activities which will occupy their time.\'a0 It is with deep appreciation that we wish Al and Linda the very best as they approach their new life in the South, and we will look forward to hearing from them and learning of their adventures in a future newsletter.\'a0 Have a life of happiness and please remember your many friends at Hart Park, as we will certainly remember you!
\fs20 \
}