{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f394\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f395\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f397\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f398\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f399\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f400\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f401\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f402\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid10889225\rsid12012515}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title                                                                 Gristmill}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy21\hr17\min48}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy21\hr17\min48}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1766}
{\nofchars10069}{\nofcharsws11812}{\vern16389}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot12012515 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12012515 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid12012515                                                                 Gristmill
\par 
\par            It was a dark and stormy night, * fierce blowing winds, slashing snow and Bill  Hart\rquote s father, Nicholas, helping Rose, Bill\rquote 
s mom, as she clutched the youngest baby, trudging several miles  toward the train depot. Each of the three other children was held inside the great blue army overcoats by the soldier  carrying them. (\'93The  fighting men always liked my father.\'94
) The storm was so fierce that much of the way from  the little home in Rockford, Iowa, had to be walking backward. This  sudden and difficult move was made because  \'93When the mill was about completed, the owner of the property  (or one of his he
nchmen) and my father had trouble--and with my father trouble meant a fight. The opponent took a thorough licking.... But my dad was out of work which meant we once more moved on.\'94 This, }{\i\insrsid12012515 In My Life East and West}{\insrsid12012515 
, Bill Hart ends that episode of  their life, and we can only guess  about their meagre personal and household possessions--many left behind because of their abrupt departure. Bill\rquote s dad\rquote s quick temper made the family\rquote 
s existence a precarious one and father\rquote s employment uncertain.
\par 
\par            Nicholas was born and educated in England. His father, John Gleason Hart, was  a famous criminal lawyer,  (\'93One of the greatest in England.\'94
) As a young man,  Nicholas came to America where he met Roseanne, an Irish lass living in Newburgh,  New York where she ha
d been reared. They  married, and with two children following  the Civil War, the family went west. Most of the millwrights in America at that time were from Europe, and Bill\rquote 
s father began building mills and held great hopes of finding just the right mill to run and to be able  to care well for his growing family. But there were problems.  Rose was in poor health from bearing children with no medical help and with Nicholas
\rquote  quick temper  (and a metal sliver in his eye),  existence was anything but rosy. Ni
cholas could have gotten the metal sliver in his eye as he dressed stones too.  The dressers usually had thick heavy beards as protection from flying bits of metal and also because of his travels, protection from the cold.  A stone dresser carried his cre
d
entials with him in the form of blue marks up and down hands and arms.  When he arrived at a mill, the miller would ask him to "show me your metal."  The traveling man would roll his sleeves up to show the blue marks his work had earned him.  The stone dr
e
ssing later became the work of the miller.  The stone dresser's job was done by itinerant workers who traveled the country from one mill to another.  In a busy mill the stones needed dressing every five or six weeks.  Nicholas whose abilities far exceeded
  the talents of a carpenter had completed seven years as an  apprentice was a millwright, a profitable and highly respected profession.
\par 
\par             Much  later, when the family returned to New York and father sought employment in the east, the family was 
probably unaware that new technologies was an added cause of job insecurity.  Steam mills were up and down the east coast by then  and in the 1880's , steampower was growing in Nebraska, Illinois, Minnesota, and  the Dakota territory.  Steam was easier an
d made mill sites less restrictive. Construction  had changed\emdash 
trains could now carry the heavy equipment needed to the West. Cylindrical grinding stones were being replaced by flat retangular steel trays  with steel rollers,  were more and more used to grin
d wheat and other grain. The steam rollermills were more efficient, and adaptable,  very much faster,  and immune to freezing  weather The flour was also better, and a mill no longer depended on a fast running stream of water. There were even companies no
w, producing everything needed  to   furnish machinery for a complete mill. By  the 1870\rquote 
s,  the art of milling was acquiring  new dimensions. Milling was now recognized as having three phases, calling for  different techniques and different machines.  Firs
t came the breaking of the kernal to  produce middlings or semolina (the break system), and reduce the the middling to flour  ( the reduction system), and in between these two was the purification of the middlings  with a purifier.. In this machine the br
an was removed and the whole workings were now called \'93the new process.\'94
\par 
\par            And with new companies fabricating all the machinery needed for a mill, Pillsburry ordered many in l87l\endash anticipating vast expansion for his mills in Minneapolis. (Bill has 
told us that his father built one of the first four mills in that city.) Yet with rapid growth in the west in the 1870\rquote s and 80\rquote 
s it is difficult to understand the  last long search by Nicholas and his young son for a mill to build  as we know millers were in great demand during the last of the seventeenth century.
\par Bill\rquote s father was a clever man--equiping mills and even dressing the millstones, readying the mill  to work. And he dreamed of finding and staying at an ideal mill to settle his family permanently. But this never came to fruition.  During the 1800
\rquote s, the mill was so valuable to a town\rquote s growth that the local folk would sometimes get together and build a millhouse to attract a miller. (In Trimbell, Wisconson, the millhouse awaited the little family\rquote 
s arrival.)  As the  last beams went up, the hard working volunteers  probably cheered loudly. In fact, the mill was so valuable to a new town\rquote s growth, on many occasions new settlements in the l850\rquote 
s and later (while Nicholas was in the West. ) offered a bonus  to a millwright  to  settle and build --$1,000, even $2,000, equal to nearly fifty thousand dollars in today's exchange. 
\par 
\par               The  mill was very valuable to town, city, ranch, or farm area. The miller provided an important food--flour for bread \endash the Staff of Life. Rancher, farmer, 
\par townfolk, all faced the onerous task of  grinding grain with mortar and pestle, and if the little pioneer family needed flour for a loaf or two of bread the next day and they had a barrel \endash sized mill,  \'93a quern\'94
,  that required  three to four hours labor of both husband and wife just to produce enough flour.  The local miller not only served a basic need, but through his work came to know every one. He knew  who was doing well, who was having trouble, a new marr
iage,  a new baby, a  barnraising party. A source of news for all,  he served all. Often a member of  the town council, he was looked to for leadership. Along with  the blacksmith, the miller was typically the highest earning man in the young town.
\par 
\par                The millwright  had to have many skills\emdash including how to build,  form and equip the mill; skills  learned as an apprentist for seven years. If you are 
\par fortunate enough to see an old mill, you will be impressed by beautifully worked old wooden machinery which by now has most likely been  lovingly restored . No nails were used as they were too hard to get. Construction was  tongue\endash 
in-groove, with wood pegs and craftsman-like work.  The mill, when Nicholas went West, had to be on a fast, dependable stream or waterfall, and a milldam was needed to ensure a water source throughout the year. (In}{\i\insrsid12012515  My Life East}{
\insrsid12012515  }{\i\insrsid12012515 and West}{\insrsid12012515 ,  Hart mentions  the milldams several times.) The strongest logs were needed to build the milldam because they had to stay in place even in
 a hard and prolonged rain. Should the milldam break, it could wash out the entire mill. Not surprisingly, the milldam became a social area for the town\emdash fishing, picnicing, swimming, and in winter, skating and cutting ice blocks for storage\emdash 
further involving  the miller with the community.  Needless to add, perhaps, the millwright  had to have trees nearby\emdash several kinds for his different purposes. Oak\emdash 
white oak for its density and strength. Maple and pine or other woods for structure and/or flexibility.
\par 
\par             The mill often had three stories.  The foundation was stone or brick or compressed cobble stone \endash 
to absorb the vibrations of the powerful water wheel and machinery. On the first floor were the machinery, incoming grain scales, storage, and washing or cleaning area. The second floor had the grindstones\emdash 
two pair, usually, one of imported French buhr stone (quartz) for wheat flour and the other of local stone for corn,  buckwheat, soya, rye and other grain, both with their accompanying working parts.  And perhaps  on this floor the miller\rquote 
s office and,  sometimes, a crane for heavy lifting.  Additionally each grindstone  had hoppers to feed the grain to the stone, bolters to sift the flours, and other working  parts.  On the third floor were the cooli
ng and drying areas.  (If the flour were stored in barrels or bags when moist or warm, the flour would spoil.) There was also a scale to weigh the out-going product as well as packing and storage. 
\par 
\par           A busy mill had five workers. The miller and his assistant, and three other  men  to clean the grain, move it around, dry and cool the flour or meal, store and pack it for delivery. Usually in barrels\emdash 
so a cooperage was nearby. The miller has provided work for the town\rquote s people. Finally, the mill would have one or  more cats! And it could be that Mary Ellen, Bill\rquote s sister, learned her love of cats  by helping care for the mill\rquote 
s mousers.
\par        
\par          The miller actually had five important jobs. The  first, was to keep the mill running efficiently and well. Listening to the sound of the machinery and feeling the meal or flour told the miller  much he needed to know. The old adage  \'93
the rule of thumb\'94 came into use in the milling business. Second, to train his assistant and the three, or so, men hired for the many supporting chores. Third, to effectively work with farmers bringing grain, ask a fair price\emdash a percentage
\emdash (when exchanging wheat for flour, he usually received one-eight of the wheat brought in)  for milling the grain, and returning flour to the grower, or selling  and shipping for him. Fourth,  to make  the payroll, a profit for himself\emdash 
and for the mill owner. Last,  the miller must keep careful books of all the exchanges that reflected profits and loses of the mill and provided the owner with, hopefully, a good profit. In the 1860\rquote 
s, a barrel (196 pounds) of flour cost between $5.00 and $6.00 or about two and one half cents a pound ( today flour will average fifty cents a pound ).Further, this price depended on time of year and was higher in winter.
\par 
\par         There are few places left to see the beautiful old mills and fewer  still are working. San Luis Obispo  has the }{\i\insrsid12012515 Apple Farm* *}{\insrsid12012515 with a millhouse and an old fourteen 
\par 
\par foot overshot waterwheel (water travels by flume, fills the wheel\rquote s buckets and turns the  wheel\emdash as opposed to an undershot waterwheel which has paddles that the river\rquote 
s flow turns).  It is interesting to note this wheel weighs over 6,000 pounds, and is made from the wood of 
a single Oregon white oak tree. The wood  must be from the same  tree in order to maintain a true balance and consistent density, and the wheel must be kept wet  throughout the entire construction process so that it will not warp. Additionally, it is  imp
erative that the wheel stay wet at all times. These are a wheelwright\rquote s concerns that  Bill Hart\rquote s father had. The men involved in the restoration of the Apple Farm Mill were members of  SPOOM\emdash 
Society for  Preservation of old Mills. An international group: TIM \endash 
International Molinological Society travels the world each year to visit old mills and meet  for  information.. Both bodies are keenly aware of  old mills and work to keep them viable. They are serious!             
\par *With apologies to Snoopy.
\par  **A  Four Diamond property , Apple Farm, has all the appeal of a traditional style inn, and would make for an instructive and enjoyable mini-vacation.
\par 
\par Audrey Taylor
\par 
\par        }{\fs36\insrsid12012515 
\par }{\insrsid12012515 
\par  
\par  
\par  . 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}