{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f393\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f394\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f396\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f397\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f398\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f399\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f400\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f401\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f403\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f404\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f406\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f407\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f408\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f409\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f410\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f411\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid10889225\rsid15741021}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title SILENTS, PLEASE}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2006\mo5\dy21\hr17\min47}{\revtim\yr2006\mo5\dy21\hr17\min47}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords626}{\nofchars3571}{\nofcharsws4189}{\vern16389}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot15741021 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid15741021 SILENTS, PLEASE!
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20\insrsid15741021      On August 5 the Friends of Hart Park "comunity" will gather once again atop "}{\f1\fs20\ul\insrsid15741021 La Loma de los Vientos}{\f1\fs20\insrsid15741021 
" to begin the second decade of our annual celebration, "Silents Under the Stars."  The fundraiser has become a Santa Clarita institution in the years since its inception, one of summer's high points for all involved.
\par 
\par      Silents Under the Stars is a key
 support event for the Friends of Hart Park.  Net profits from the program help underwrite a number of annual activities, and, in addition, enable the Friends to consider and inaugurate new outreach.  Financial assistance from Los Angeles County is minima
l
, and the William S. Hart will precludes generating additional income from admissions or commercial rental fees.  Therefore, income from special events such as the Silents, from Pow-Wow sponsors and concessions, mansion musical and dramatic presentations,
 plus direct support from individual donors--these funds are critical to the Friends.
\par 
\par The Silents program--to a great extent shaped by the park's facilities--has changed little over the decade, but has been steadily "fine-tuned."  Since the completion of H
art Hall there have been suggestions about moving the supper and film program to the lower park, with its easy accessibility to parking and the possibility of a larger audience.  However, support persists for keeping the Silents at its now-traditional loc
ation, high on }{\f1\fs20\ul\insrsid15741021 La Loma:}{\f1\fs20\insrsid15741021 
 the mansion, with guides in period costumes and free-flow movement through the colorful rooms, is both the beginning and the end of Bill Hart's long-time presence in Newhall; the feeling is that of being [a bit] above the world, and 
as the ranch supper ends and a summer evening arrives, the setting is simply right.
\par 
\par      Longtime FOHP Director Gene Taylor was an early organizer and first majordoma of
 the Silents--chose the first film, designed the tickets, surveyed and selected the caterer, supervised the inaurgural evening, and appropriately, collected the money--continuing for the programs's early years.  Audrey Taylor helped helped organize (then 
a
s she continues to today) the mansion room guides, so much a part of the period sense.  As the program developed other directors and volunteers assumed some of the tasks, many carrying on to the present:  director John Mann donated time, material, and all
 
printing until his retirement, in 2004; Ken Yapkowitz and the colorful Jug Band became a live musical sound track for most of the decade.  Sheila Miller showcased the art of decorating 24 or more tables on a zero budget, and Barbara Yeager became unoffici
al cake-baker for the Santa Clarita Valley.  Jeff Wheat rode and continues to ride point on the selection of and preparation for the evening's Hart film (nine features in 11 years--}{\f1\fs20\ul\insrsid15741021 Tumbleweeds and The Toll Gate}{
\f1\fs20\insrsid15741021  each twice), and Director Dick Meier continued adding responsibilities annually until he was overall Silents Chair, steering the full program for five years.
\par 
\par The Silents continued developing in recent years.  New dimensions include a colorful and successful Silent Auction, established and enlarged by
 Directors President Donna Chipperfield and Andree Walper, a a raffle associated with that auction.  Film historian-restorer-projectionist David Shepard, a Jeff Wheat colleague, has donated his time and brought his fine equipment and expertise to the Sile
n
ts film component, and composer-musician Ray Lowe joined the event in 2005 to provide a colorful and swashbuckling musical accompaniment.  The many Volunteers who participate and the Patrons and guests who return each year continue their most important su
p
port, and the skilled and enthusiastic crew from Rattler's rides in for the annual roundup, to satisfy more than 200 hungry cowboys-for-the-night.  And behind (as well as before and after) have been the background stalwarts: Hart Museum Administrator Jani
s Ashley and Park Director Tina Raleigh, who contributed so much to the Silents, and who will be sorely missed.
\par 
\par Silents Under the Stars approaches again, on August 5, and as the valley below quiets and the late-afternoon sunlight gives way to evening, the anticipation will rise again: "Silents, Please!"
\par 
\par Elliott McGrew
\par }}