{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f40\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f42\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f43\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f45\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f47\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f49\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f55\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f56\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f57\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5768080\rsid12983209}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title Silents Under The Stars}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2007\mo2\dy26\hr21\min45}{\revtim\yr2007\mo2\dy26\hr21\min45}{\version2}{\edmins192}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords448}{\nofchars2555}{\nofcharsws2998}{\vern16389}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot12983209 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid12983209 Silents Under The Stars
\par 
\par Early in August the William S. Hart Park and Museum will host another evening called Silents Under the Stars.  This has been an annual event and grows more popular each year. The following letter was received after last year's fun filled evening.  Many th
anks to William Miller for sharing his thoughts on "Silents."
\par 
\par 6 August 06
\par 
\par On the evening of Saturday, August 5th, another magical spell was cast over the William S. Hart Park and Mansion.  Yes, it was the annual "Silents Under the Stars" event that has been a tradition for many years.
\par 
\par I use the term magical spell because this event is unlike any other evening's entertainment available. In today's dollars, the small $35.00 ticket price is truly a bargain.  A self-guided tour of the Hart Mansion with inform
ation available from volunteers in each room gets the evening off to a great start.  For first time visitors, this is a special treat.  For those returning year after year, it still holds a special meaning in your heart to learn as much as possible about 
the man who almost single-handedly made western movies the kind of all movie genres.
\par 
\par As the evening progresses, friendly people congregate in the picnic area to greet each other, talk to board members and volunteers and perhaps indulge in a cool refreshmen
t.  Your taste buds are just about ready for another great bar-b-que dinner.  Suddenly it is time for chow and you're never disappointed with the quality and quantity of food served.  After dessert is served, everyone gathers up their folding chairs and p
laces them in position for the highlight of the evening, the feature film starring William S. Hart.  For those never fortunate enough to attend this event, think of it in terms as a "drive-in movie without cars."
\par 
\par Introductions }{\f1\fs20\insrsid12983209 and}{\f1\fs20\insrsid12983209  announcements are made, t
he sun has set and just like on a real movie set, you hear the call:  "roll em" as the picture begins, you listen to great live music and sit in awe of the entire evening, under the stars.  You may wonder if Bill Hart will kiss the girl or the horse at th
e
 end of the film.  This time he kisses the girl.  Suddenly, the movie is over and the evening has come to an end.  You look at your watch and can't believe how fast the 4+ hours have passed.  As I made my way back to the parking lot I couldn't help but re
f
lect on the entire evening and what it all meant to me.  Perhaps it was like turning the clock back to a time where people of all walks of life, complete strangers to each other, could visit, sit down at the same table and enjoy a meal, watch a movie that
 not only entertained but left a message that is nearly non-existent in today's modern films.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid12983209   }{\f1\fs20\insrsid12983209 
That message of being good conquers evil, honesty is the best policy and if you do decide to "kiss the horse," you wouldn't worry about some political activist group dragging you into court.
\par 
\par My heartfelt thanks go out to each and every person involved in making this year's "Silents" another great success.
\par 
\par William Miller
\par }}