{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f40\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f42\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f43\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f45\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f47\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f49\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f50\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f55\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f56\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f57\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5768080\rsid8131335}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title This is a continuation of the article by Marc Wanamaker}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2007\mo2\dy26\hr23\min38}{\revtim\yr2007\mo2\dy26\hr23\min38}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1582}{\nofchars9022}
{\nofcharsws10583}{\vern16389}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot8131335 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid8131335 This is a continuation of the article by Marc Wanamaker
\par 
\par In June according to director Robert Florey who was a foreign correspondent in Hollywood at the time, said that the studio was remodeled into a more permanent facility with a formal roof over the stage and expanded with more office and work space provided
.  The new roof was painted with the sign: WILLIAM S. HART STUDIO that could be seen for miles around.  The address was also changed at this time from 4319 Effie Street to 1215 Bates Avenue, East Hollywood.
\par 
\par There were nine releases in 1918, one after the o
ther, which kept the Hart studio in continuous operation.  In April, "The Tiger Man" was released followed by: "Selfish Yates" May, "Shark Monroe" July, "Riddle Gawne" August, "A Bullet For Berlin" Sept, "A Border Wireless" October and "Branding Broadway"
 in December.  Costars with Hart during the year of 1918 included: Jane Novak, Katherine MacDonald, Lon Chaney, Wanda Hawley and Seena Owen.  Camera Joe August continued with the Hart Studio throughout the year.
\par 
\par With the coming of the new year, 1919, "Bree
d Of Men" is released on February 2nd, costarring Juanita Hansen, followed by "The Poppy Girl's Husband" with Jane Novak on March 16th.  In August of 1919 there was an article with photographs of Hart at his studio entitled: "Western Cowboy Dandy vs. Beau
 
Brummel on Broadway."  Hart is seen in the article standing in front of some of the dressing rooms, showing off his wardrobe for many of his pictures.  "Honestly, folks, a tenderfoot visitor at my Hollywood studio actually asked me this question...'What w
i
ll the Western Cowboy wear this season?'  In a fan magazine also in August of 1918, a photograph of the William S. Hart Studio painted on the roof confirming director Robert Florey's recollection.  In June, "Square Deal Sanderson" starring Hart and Ann Li
t
tle and co-directed by Hart and Lambert Hillyer was released.  This was followed in July with "Wagon Tracks" starring Jane Novak and directed by Lambert Hillyer.  On August 30, 1919 an article in The Moving Picture World anounced: "The Wiliam S. Hart cont
r
act with Artcraft has ended.  A new sign on the studio at Bates and Effie Street reads: "The William S. Hart Company, E. H. Allen, General Manager, Artcraft Program."  A new contract was signed and under the new contract the studio will be outfitted and o
verhauled for the new Artcraft season. Mr. Hart has retained almost every member of his staff for his new contract period.  H.J. Howard, Tom Brierly (art directors), Joe August (camera), Leroy Stone (editor) and J. Hoffner (electrical dept.).
\par 
\par With the end 
of 1919, "John Petticoats" is released on November 2nd and with the coming of 1920 a new contract is signed for more productions to be released by Paramount.  On April 5th, "The Toll Gate" was released starring Anna Q. Nilsson and was directed by Lambert 
Hilyer.
\par 
\par According to William S. Hart's biography, "My contract with Tom Ince came to an end.  We had a final meeting of the company directors at the William S. Hart Studio; Tom, Mrs. Ince, William Grossman (my lawyer), and myself being the directors of the
 William S. Hart Productions Inc....(after the meeting which sorted out money matters, etc.)... I retained my same studio for the William S. Hart Company.  My first picture for the new contract with Famous Players Lasky Paramount was "Sand" released on Ju
ne 29th.  It starred Mary Thurman and was directed by Lambert Hillyer and photographed by Joe August and Dwight Warren.  Thomas A. Bierley was the art director and the film was edited by LeRoy Stone." 
\par 
\par In an article in The Moving Picture World on June 12th
 it was announced, "William S. Hart will make nine great western photo dramas for Paramount."  Around his production activities, William Hart has built up an organization of exceptional strength.  The roster is as follows: E. H. Allen, manager, Lambert Hi
l
lyer, director, Joe August, lead cameraman, Dwight Warren, Second camera, Cal Hoffner, technical director, LeRoy Stone, film editor, Bennett Musson, screen editor, Paul conlon, press representative and William Curran, assistant director.  The new leading 
w
oman is Eva Novak, sister of Jane Novak.  On October 17, 1920 the "Cradle of Courage" was released with Ann Little costarring with Hart on location in San Francisco.  By the end of the year "The Testing Block" was finished and released on December 26, 192
0 and starred Eva Novak and Gordon Russell for Paramount-Artcraft distribution. 
\par 
\par With the coming of the new year, the William S. Hart Studio was in a state of continuous operation with a small, tightly knit group of trusted production staff that Hart worke
d with in concert.  The first of the 1921 releases was "O'Malley Of The Mounted" produced by the William S. Hart Company and released in February 1921.  It starred Eva Novak and was directed by Lambert Hillyer, Hart's director-general.  Following O"Malley
,
 the next two releases were 'The Whistle', released April 23, 1921 starring Myrtle Stedman and 'Three Word Brand' starring Paul Marsden and S. J. Bingham and Jane Novak released October 16, 1921.  Special optical effects creating (2) Bill Harts in two cha
racter roles was featured in the film.
\par 
\par ''White Oak' released December 18, 1921 with Vola Vale again costarring.  ''White Oak' was one of Hart's more realistic western films.  One of the reviews said: "Once again Bill Hart has undertaken to write his own st
ory and if he can continue the good work, there's no reason why he shouldn't for White Oak is a splendid picture... It contains plenty of action fine detail and a real atmosphere of the old West with "Injuns" 'n' everything."  Not only is Hart's film accu
r
ate in its detail of the old west, he employed a Sioux Indian by the name of Standing Bear. [Standing Bear's life and film career is just now being researched and is proving to be one of the more interesting of the Native American actors who worked for Th
omas Ince in the years between 1908 and 1920]  Much of the film was shot on location on the old Iverson Ranch in Chatsworth.  There is a photograph of Hart and Vola Vale looking out at the 'empty' San Fernando Valley from the Chatsworth rocks.
\par 
\par With the coming of 1922 Hart had completed another western film entitled, 'Travelin' On' released March 11, 1922 starring James Farley and Ethel Grey Terry.
\par 
\par As told in William S. Hart's Autobiography: a five thousand dollar expense each week was going on at the idle 
studio of the William S. Hart company.  After the suit was completed (legal suit between Thomas Ince and William S. Hart)... I realized that the overhead of my studio and legal expenses ate up all the money I gained.  It was almost impossible to secure su
itable Western stories.  I put in part of my days and most of my nights working out stories.
\par 
\par While doing 'Travelin' On' we were working on the stage at the studio one day shooting interiors of a barn.  The scenes were hard to get due to Fritz working with 
a monkey... then there was suddenly a rolling roar... our studio occupied the full space of a triangule-shaped block.  Around and around the building earsplitting sound traveled... workmen dropped their tools, electricians scrambled down from their statio
ns overhead, actors ran for the exits... it turned out to be 'Lisbeth' the giant mule."
\par 
\par In Wid's trade magazine of March 19, 1922 it said; "Travelin' On is said to be the star's last picture, or at least the last one which Paramount will release unless a n
ew contract is made."  According to the autobiography of William S. Hart "I was to give up my studio and take a long rest.  We who had been together (studio) for four years were to part.  While there had always been an undercurrent of freedom and a spirit
 
of levity in our little family, we had driven ourselves hard.  When one calm spring morning (1922) the last truck pulled away from the old place, I felt something had  gone out of my life.  Nor was I consoled when, alone in the little bare dressing room, 
I looked at the engraved copperplate inscription on the inside of a new rawhide trunk: 'A token of esteem and love from the greatest Hart fans in the world, his own company!"
\par 
\par It was sometime during the months of April-May of 1922 that the William S. Hart S
tudio was emptied of equipment and put on the market as a used studio space for film production.  By the end of the year a for sale sign is put up on the building and it remains empty and abandoned.
\par 
\par Hart was taking a long rest from a rather hectic schedul
e that lasted for four years.  Much of the filmaking was shot on location in rough areas in California as well as other states.  Hart who directed his earlier films could not do it along and over the years relied on his small production company that he ca
l
led his 'family'.  On June 23, 1923 in a Los Angeles newspaper it was reported :  "Hart Through With Old Studio."  The For Sale sign will not come down from the old triangular Hart studio at 1215 Bates Street... first studio on the right as you hand the c
onductor your 10 cents check.  When William S. Hart resumes his motion picture career in about 30 days it will be at the Lasky Studio on Vine Street, resources of which 'are infinitely more complete" Hart said.  
\par 
\par By the end of 1923 Edwin H. Flagg purchased the studio property through the real estate broker R. A. Rowan and Company, Los Angeles.  Through a deal between Flagg and Charles F. Thompson and Scenic Company, the property was improved, remodeled and made in
t
o a scenic painting company for theater and film settings.  The old shacks at the apex of the lot, the point of the triangle, were town down and the building was extended to that apex.  By 1926 the building was listed in advertisements in motion picture d
i
rectories as: Edwin H. Flagg Studios/studio prop house and scenic loft.  It was during this time that Mr. Thompson put in motorized paint frames and concrete pits.  The building was also stuccoed and strengthened for permanency.  By 1937 the Flagg Scenic 
C
ompany goes out of business and the building is sold to a Homer Curran.  By 1938 Curran Productions/scenic studios and Bates Electric lighting rentals to stage and screen is listed.  It was at this time that the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera would use the
 
facilities for their scenic needs.  From 1938 to the late 1970's the building was known as Cuirran Productions and Bates Electrical until the property was sold in 1986 and renamed, The Triangle Studios."  Today the building is used as a scenic painting fa
cility and also is used as a rental sound stage by commercial and music video companies.
\par 
\par  
\par 
\par  
\par }}