{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f39\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f42\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f43\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f44\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f45\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f46\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f47\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5768080\rsid16211712}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title Diversity of the Hart: An Administrator\'92s Perspective}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2007\mo2\dy26\hr23\min36}{\revtim\yr2007\mo2\dy26\hr23\min36}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords320}{\nofchars1824}
{\nofcharsws2140}{\vern16389}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot16211712 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cf1\lang9\langfe1033\kerning28\langnp9\insrsid16211712 Diversity of the Hart: An Administrator\rquote s Perspective
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\lang9\langfe1033\kerning28\langnp9\insrsid16211712 During your last visit to the William S. Hart Museum, you may have noticed the diversity of William S. Hart\rquote 
s collection including Western art, Native American beadwork, film memorabilia, and Samurai swords all housed within a Spanish Colonial Revival Architectural Style mansion.  Just like the diversity of the Museum\rquote 
s collection, I have found the Hart Administrator position to be quite diverse in that I work with a variety of people and projects.  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\lang9\langfe1033\kerning28\langnp9\insrsid16211712 \tab One of the beautiful aspects of the Administrator positi
on is that my days are filled with an assortment of duties and responsibilities.  As the Administrator, I have the opportunity to assist the Friends of Hart Park and Museum with events such as Silents Under the Stars, coordinate new outreach programs with
 local school districts and day care centers, and evaluate the Hart Museum building\rquote 
s security with Park Staff and Security.  In addition, I facilitate tours of the Museum with Hart Volunteers, represent the Museum at the Santa Clarita Tourism Bureau meetin
g, as well as learn about and implement conservation techniques with Natural History Museum Curators.  The Hart Museum continues to present me with enriching experiences while consistently stimulating my mind.  As I have said many times in the past, \'93
It is never a dull moment at the Hart.\'94
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\lang9\langfe1033\kerning28\langnp9\insrsid16211712 
Although the Hart Museum can be challenging at times, I am able to overcome obstacles because of the support that has been shown during my tenure here.  Hart Volunteers continue to provide our patrons with quality tours a
nd assist me with community outreaches.  The Friends of Hart Park & Museum organize special events in efforts to raise funds for Park and Museum projects.  Hart Park Staff and Security consistently keep the Park and Museum protected and beautiful for our 
guests.  Only with this devoted team can the Hart Park and Museum function smoothly and successfully.  I feel fortunate to work with such a dedicated community of staff and volunteers who truly care about preserving William S. Hart\rquote s legacy.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\cf1\lang9\langfe1033\kerning28\langnp9\insrsid16211712 
\par 
\par Ayesha Saletore
\par Administrator
\par William S. Hart Museum
\par 
\par }}