{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f42\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f43\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f45\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f46\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f47\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f48\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f49\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f50\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f52\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f56\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f57\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f58\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f59\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f60\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6821281\rsid11875054}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title From Bill Crowl, Past President of Friends of Hart Park}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2006\mo11\dy20\hr18\min50}{\revtim\yr2006\mo11\dy20\hr18\min50}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords773}{\nofchars4409}
{\nofcharsws5172}{\vern16389}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot6821281 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 From Bill Crowl, Past President of Friends of Hart Park
\par 
\par On August 26, 2006, the SCV Historical Society hosted a lecture program on }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 The History of Movie Making in the Santa Clarita Valley.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
  The guest speaker was Marc Wanamaker, an acknowledged and respected archivist/historian of the movie industry.  
\par 
\par I have known Marc since 1998, when he explained to me that our patron, Bill, had never occupied t
he William S. Hart building on the Paramount Studio Lot.  Years earlier, the Studio had asked Marc for a list of famous stars after which they could name each building, for Public Relations purposes.  I prevailed upon Marc to write an article for the }{
\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Hart Of The Matter }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 newsletter which I edited at the time.  I am enclosing a copy of his article that was featured in our September 1998 issue.
\par 
\par Incidentally, Marc is the co-author of a series of }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Picture Books}{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281  about our Southern California areas.  }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Los Angeles - 
Past & Present, Hollywood - Past & Present, Orange County - Past & Present, and San Diego - Past & Present.  }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 I have a copy of }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Los Angeles - Past & Present }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
and give it my heartiest endorsement.  Marc has selected about 60 photographs of historical sites in 
the Greater LA area, some dating back to 1880 through 1930.  Then, his co-author, photographer George Jezak, set up his camera at he same spot and took a picture as it looks today.  Marc captioned each photo with a short story about the changes.  
\par 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Bill Hart's Hollywood Years
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
William S. Hart born in the mid-nineteenth century, spent much of his youth traveling around the country and developed a deep attachment to the American West.  When he was 24 years old he began a career of being a stage actor on the N
ew York Stage.  He soon gained a reputation as a Shakespearean actor and became famous with his success as Messala in the 1899 Broadway production of Ben Hur and in stage versions of Western dramas such as }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
The Squaw Man, The Virginian, and Trail of the Lonesome Pine.}{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
  It wasn't until Hart was 49 years old that he entered the world of motion pictures in 1914.  When he was in Los Angeles on a theatrical tour he was convinced to work in films by his friend, Thomas H. Ince at a studio named Inceville on the Pac
ific Coast Highway near Santa Monica.  He had learned some Sioux language in his youth and his love of the west and its rich heritage, his films were produced with as much realism as could be done at the time.  His films became very popular and eclipsed t
h
e prior success of Broncho Billy Anderson at the Essanay Company in the early teens.  By 1916 after Thomas Ince moved most of his productions out to a new and modern studio in Culver City, Hart was given the run of the entire Inceville studio property whi
c
h was renamed Hartville, Hart's first very own motion picture studio.  By 1917 Hart became a part owner of his films revenue and moved to Famous Players Lasky in Hollywood to work on films co-produced by his own production company and a newly created comp
a
ny named Artcraft.  Artcraft would be a subsidiary of Famous Players Lasky-Paramount that would share in the profits.  Others such as Thomas Ince, D. W. Griffith, Douglas Fairbanks, and Mary Pickford also were brought in under the new Artcraft company.  H
art's first film under the new contract for Artcraft was }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 The Narrow Trail, }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
shot during July and August of 1917 at the Lasky Studios in Hollywood, Sunset Blvd and Vine Street.  William S. Hart said in his autobiography that "We leased the old Mabel Normand S
tudios in East Hollywood from Mack Sennett.  I remained in this studio for four years."  There had been many problems by operating a studio at the beach.  Fog, dampness, wind, low light in the early mornings, inaccessibility from most parts of the city, e
tc. were blamed for moving the entire studio inland.  By the end of October, 1917, William S. Hart was on locations making his second Artcraft release, }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 The Silent Man.  }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 In announcing his next film, }{
\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Wolves Of The Rail}{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281  there was an article in Picture World on January 5, 1918, saying "Bill Hart Changes Type of Characters.  In his film, }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Wolves Of The Rail }{
\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Hart is introduced in a new role - that of an upholder of law and order - was photographed in the recessess of the California mountains."  The film was shot so
metime around the end of December and released on January 14, 1918.  Shortly after the completion of }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Wolves Of The Rail }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
the fifth release was announced in Motion Picture News on January 12th, "Hart Subject Awaits Name...Until the film is edited completely 
and ready for the market, no name will be given the fifth William S. Hart production for Artcraft, which was completed last week at the Hart Studies in Hollywood.  The subject is now being given the final ok at the laboratories of the Thomas H. Ince Studi
os, and in the meantime the star and producing company is enjoying a holiday vacation."  The title of the fifth release directed by Hart, was }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Blue Blazes Rawden}{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
 costarring Maude George and Gertrude Claire.  He had previously directed }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 The Silent Man }{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 and }{\b\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 Wolves Of The Rail}{\f1\fs20\insrsid6821281 
 with Joe August as his cameraman since his new studio went into operation.  
\par 
\par This article by Mr. Wanamaker will be continued in the next Hart Of The Matter.
\par }}