{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f42\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f43\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f45\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f46\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f47\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f48\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f49\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f50\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6358681\rsid11875054}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title NOV}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2006\mo11\dy20\hr18\min53}{\revtim\yr2006\mo11\dy20\hr18\min53}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords388}{\nofchars2215}{\nofcharsws2598}{\vern16389}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot6358681 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6358681 NOV. 06 PRESIDENT\rquote S MESSAGE
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid6358681 
Donna Chipperfield = grace, dignity, determination, and fervent and tireless dedication.  I cannot replace her, I can only succeed her.  Over the last 50 years I have belonged to forty to fifty organizations, and from the first time I saw Donna preside ov
e
r a meeting of the Board of the FOHP I was struck by the notion that I had never seen anyone more fitted for a position of leadership.  I add my voice to all who have expressed their gratitude for her leadership and am thankful that she continues to serve
 as an Officer of the Board.  Bill Hart\rquote s legacy has no better friend than Donna Chipperfield.
\par As we begin a new fiscal year we look forward to many traditional events at the Hart Park & Museum, as well as new events that will inspire all who participate, a
nd will illuminate all of the wonderful things that constitute the park and Bill and Mary Ellen\rquote s last home that in a sort of magical way has become part of our collective home.
\par I hope that you all may enjoy Cowboys and Carols in celebration of Mr. Hart\rquote s 142}{\super\insrsid6358681 nd}{\insrsid6358681 
 birthday on December 9, which is being organized by Sheila Miller and Friends.  My bride, Caroline, will once again bring her culinary and artistic talents to the refreshment table, Gene Taylor has arranged for a performance by the talented choir of 
Saugus High School, and Lina Schulz has agreed to designate the Native American Nation whose children will receive your generous gifts of toys to celebrate the Holiday season.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid6358681 \tab We have much good work to do, and I ask for your prayers as we fight the good f
ight to preserve what Mr. Hart collected and then gave to all of us so that we would not forget our own history and what is fundamental to our western heritage.
\par \tab WWW is now a household term meaning world wide web.  When I was a young man, WWW stood for thr
ee words of the Delaware Nation that were central to the Order of the Arrow, the Boy Scout honor society:  Wimachtendink, Wingolousik, Wituhimua which means the brotherhood of cheerful service.  I hope to bring that spirit to my small part to play in the 
greater Friends of Hart Park.
\par \tab In closing, I would like to share a bit of history I read in the November 2006 issue of \'93The American Legion\'94.  }{\i\insrsid6358681 
Last Man Standing:  The last veteran of  the American Revolution died at age 109 in 1869, the last veteran of the 
War of 1812 died at age 105 in 1905, the last veteran of the Mexican War died at age 98 in 1929, the last veteran of the Civil War died at age 112 in 1958, and the last veteran of the Spanish American War died at age 106 in 1992.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid6358681 \tab \tab \tab \tab Yours in service,
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab Bob McKinley
\par }}