{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f42\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f43\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f393\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f394\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f396\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f397\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f398\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f399\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f400\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f401\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2494850\rsid9779036\rsid11875054\rsid12659428}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\title Spanish Colonial Revival Architecture}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2006\mo11\dy20\hr20\min51}{\revtim\yr2006\mo11\dy20\hr21\min19}{\version4}{\edmins29}{\nofpages3}
{\nofwords1497}{\nofchars8535}{\nofcharsws10012}{\vern16389}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot12659428 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f42\insrsid2494850 Spanish Colonial Revival Architecture
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi680\li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f42\insrsid2494850 Spanish Colonial Revival architectural style was brought into vogue following the San Diego Exposition of 1915.  It became popular nati
onwide, but particularly in Southern California whe}{\f42\insrsid9779036 re designers attempted to link }{\f42\insrsid2494850 with the romantic past of the area.  An earlier effort to establish the \'d2Mission Revival\'d3 had failed because it }{
\f42\insrsid9779036 proved impossible to adapt the }{\f42\insrsid2494850 architecture of a religious order to the commercial and worldly society of the turn of the century.  The Spanish Colonial Revival Style had been promoted by Charles Lummis who urged 
}{\f42\insrsid9779036 Californians to go back to the }{\f42\insrsid2494850 original.  Unfortunately, no one knew what that was and the outcome was}{\f42\insrsid9779036  }{\f42\insrsid2494850 an imagined style and an idealized vision of the past.
\par Spanish Colonial Revival thus became the trademark regional style.  By the 1920\rquote s, Los Angeles had mushroomed by a million and a half people,  and as newcomers flooded to California, they wanted to l
ive in a bit of old California and architects began paying careful attention to the site, making sure the home fit into its surroundings.  Bill Hart\rquote 
s sister, Mary Ellen, partly confined to a wheelchair, contributing to this architectural equation, asked t
hat she be able to step out of her bedroom from all sides, with the result that part of the hilltop site was configured to provide ground level access from both the first and second floor. The home does fit the surroundings well. 
\par  Characteristics of the S
panish Colonial Revival style include thick, adobe-type walls, and we find that some of the Hart mansion walls are very thick. Built with wood on each side of a two-and-a-half or three foot space, then stuccoed on the outside of each wall, leaving a small
  space between, the walls enabled the easy addition of the many inside wall cabinets that are so filled with books and other treasures.
\par  The low-pitched tile roof is best seen from the flagpole area in back.  All }{\i\f43\insrsid2494850 historic tile, }{\f42\insrsid2494850 made by hand and of a red cl
ay, flattened to a measured pattern cut, each piece was formed into an arc over the thigh of the workman.  On close inspection, we}{\f42\insrsid2494850  can even see the fingerprints }{\f42\insrsid2494850 
of the maker on individual tiles.  This means that any repair or replacement of the tile must be of similar work as the mansion has been designated historical.  Additional}{\f42\insrsid9779036 ly, while looking at the tile, }{\f42\insrsid2494850 
one will find a variety in the arch form -- some fat, some skinny (a difference in the men\rquote s thighs).  
\par While looking at the roof, also note the wonderful wrought iron}{\f42\insrsid9779036  }{\f42\insrsid2494850 
cowboy weathervane.  That little horse is definitely obstreperous -- belly and two hooves high above the ground.  The cowboy is equally determined, with reins in the left hand and the right swinging a lariat, while at the end of the van
e is a prickly pear cactus hoping to be included in the action.  This old vane was well made \lquote cause it still may be seen (and heard) turning in the wind as it stands atop the three story-square tower that, within, was William S. Hart Jr.\rquote 
s favorite place, the observation porch.  In Hart\rquote s day, there was a telescope on the porch\endash currently stored in its original wooden box in the house.  A Carl Zeiss Kellner\rquote sches Okular f=50mm, with revolving triple eyepie}{
\f42\insrsid2494850 ces, and a magnification of 15,}{\f42\insrsid2494850  the Zeiss motto:  }{\i\f43\insrsid2494850 Bring the stars to the earth }{\f42\insrsid2494850 surely captured young Bill\rquote 
s imagination.  Perhaps we could have the telescope up and displayed for our observation in the future.  
\par Access to the third floor of the tower is near the electric clock, and on the way up the stairway to the tower is a projection room with an old 1920\rquote s Simplex projector inside.  Mr. Hart was fire safety conscious, thus the room\rquote 
s floor and ceiling are covered with a metal (tin) surface.  One may also note the two }{\f42\insrsid9779036 apertures}{\f42\insrsid2494850  in the living room wall t
hrough which the film was projected onto a screen that was pulled down from the back of the beam across the bottom of the last truss system.
\par }\pard \ql \fi630\li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx7200\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f42\insrsid2494850  The round tower provides a dramatic entry area, with a lofty entrance hall and painted ceiling, accentuated by a g
rand staircase of formed concrete, obviating the need for posts to hold the weight of the stairway and its occupants. There are the stairway wrought iron newell, and railings, and upon reaching the top floor, we enjoy a lovely leaded glass window with 
\'d2bull\rquote s eye\'d3 glass rounds of many shades of amber and light green, taken from the bottoms of old hand-blown glass bottles.
\par  Another element of the \'d2Style\'d3 is many doors and windows for cross ventilation.  As the long French door windows were often open, securi
ty is enhanced by simple wrought iron grills, not always obvious and between window and screen, while others can be seen outside.  The two windows near the front door have plain wire grills, affixed to the wall on all sides -- quite common to the Spanish 
Revival style -- and are dramatically set against the white stucco walls, while inside the house are the handmade chandeliers and sconces and drapery rods, all a facet of the style, with differently designed pieces in each room.
\par  The exterior of the mansion is a clean white stucco with lavish wood elements.  Additionally, there are two wooden balconies extending Mary Ellen\rquote 
s bedroom that enabled her to walk out on all four sides. These balconies have turned balusters and wooden bracket columns, and are joined by additional wrought iron balconies on the outside of the living room.  }{\f42\insrsid9779036 Prominent}{
\f42\insrsid2494850  fireplaces, part of this architectural style, are in the living room, and in Mary Ellen\rquote s bedroom. Then we have the warming oven in the dining room. (added to the house because Mary Ellen saw one like it in a }{
\i\f43\insrsid2494850 Vogue }{\f42\insrsid2494850 magazine of 1926 or \rquote 27).
\par  The beamed ceilings are typically Spanish Colonial Revival Architecture style.  Hart\rquote s were painted by acclaimed Dutch-born muralist, Antoon B. Heinsbergen (noted for murals and archite
ctural ornamentation throughout California).  Interestingly, Hart inspired the designs by making sketches of many of his rugs and baskets and sending the sketches to the artist who interpreted them.  Also the heavy, solid wood doors are great.  Recently a
 Los Angeles county carpenter opined that the doors would average four hundred dollars apiece \'d2today.\'d3  Consider!  There are some sixty doors in the house! 
\par  Still other characteristics of the architec}{\f42\insrsid9779036 ture style include the pierced }{\f42\insrsid2494850 area in the front facade.  The wall is smooth, with pierced design of many triangles, admitting light while pr}{\f42\insrsid9779036 
oviding privacy, while some of }{\f42\insrsid2494850 the pierced walls on the second floor reflect simpler patterns. 
\par  Another element of this architec}{\f42\insrsid9779036 tural style are decorative and }{\f42\insrsid2494850 impressive chimneys. The chimney that}{\f42\insrsid9779036  dissipates the smoke from the }{\f42\insrsid2494850 
living room fireplace is crowned by two large red clay jugs that match th}{\f42\insrsid9779036 e red clay tiles atop the roof,}{\f42\insrsid2494850  while the chimney from the bedroom of Mary Ellen has what looks like a huge ship\rquote s horn a
t its top. Two more chimneys:  one to eliminate the gases from the heating equipment on the first floor; the other for the built-in incinerator in the outside kitchen wall, with a pointed, white, stuccoed arch accenting its top.
\par  Awnings and outdoor curtains were often part of the 1920\rquote s and 1930\rquote s Spanish Revival House, affording a theatrical character. There are three of these window awnings at Bill\rquote s home, all on the west side:  his bedroom, Mary Ellen
\rquote s bedroom and the \'d2dogs\rquote \'d3 room.  The awnings look to be in rather good condition and we believe they were last replaced in 1995 or \rquote 96 when the home was repainted.  Spanish Revival became popul}{\f42\insrsid9779036 
ar with the movie colony and a }{\f42\insrsid2494850 number of celebrities (including Will Rogers) began to build in Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Pasadena and in Newhall when William S. Hart placed his home on a hill overlooking the Santa Clarita Valley.

\par }\pard \ql \fi700\li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx7200\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f42\insrsid2494850  It was in 1921 that Hart purchased a ranch house and surrounding land from George Babcock Smith.  This was the f
irst of several land purchases which would eventually comprise his some two-hundred-fifty acre Horseshoe Ranch, which Hart sometimes used as a setting for his movies.  The Hart residence was designed by architect Arthur Kelly according to the wishes of Ha
rt and his sister Mary El}{\f42\insrsid9779036 len Hart (who, it is believed, }{\f42\insrsid2494850 was more exacting and specific than Bill).  Construction began in 1925, the h}{\f42\insrsid9779036 ouse was occupied in late 1927.  At
 a cost of $130,000 -- A price }{\f42\insrsid2494850 tag that could exceed two-and-a-half-million dollars (excluding site) today.}{\i\f43\insrsid2494850 
\par }{\f42\insrsid2494850 Hart\rquote s bunk house is a simple California Rancho Revival adobe style.  It is a one-story tile-roof building with a front }{\i\f43\insrsid2494850 portal }{\f42\insrsid2494850 
and French doors covered with plain grills.  Bill Hart was retired and he had seen his father work with wood 
in a talented manner, and he used fallen eucalyptus and oak trees to create two pair of bunk beds for the bunkhouse.  Although, it is unknown where the bunk beds are, the chairs he made are on the porch in back of the house.
\par  Surprisingly absent, another element of Spanish Colonial Architectural style is wooden window shutters.  As it turns out, the mansion had shutters, but the last }{\f42\insrsid9779036 time the house it was painted, }{\f42\insrsid2494850 
a decision to save money was made to remove the shutters. Subsequently since some of the shut
ters needed restoration, they were all taken down and stored in the garage.  With good luck, no termites, wood beetles, or wood rot, we may be able to restore, paint and replace the shutters.
\par  In summary, the architecture expressed by Bill Hart\rquote s mansion is classic Spanish Colonial }{\f42\insrsid9779036 Revival.  Its drama and beauty }{\f42\insrsid2494850 combine functionalism with art, timelessness with bygone days.
\par   Author Elizabeth McMillian, Ph.D., perhaps describes the Style most eloquently when she writes:}{\f42\insrsid9779036  \'d2(Spanish Revival) depicts an }{\f42\insrsid2494850 idealized form of culture and ethnic roots.... }{\f42\insrsid2494850 
paying tribute to the strength }{\f42\insrsid2494850 of Southern California\rquote s history and the depth of its design heritage.\'d3
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx7200\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f42\insrsid2494850  Recommended Reading
\par }\pard \ql \fi-20\li740\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx7200\faauto\rin0\lin740\itap0 {\f42\insrsid2494850  Wm. S Hart Volunteer Handbook
\par }\pard \ql \fi-20\li740\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx7200\faauto\rin0\lin740\itap0 {\f42\insrsid2494850  California Colonial\emdash The Spanish and Rancho Revival Styles
\par  By Elizabeth MacMillian 
\par  Schiffer Pub. Co. 2002
\par }\pard \ql \fi-20\li740\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqr\tx7200\faauto\rin0\lin740\itap0\pararsid12659428 {\f42\insrsid2494850  (The author interviewed Zandra Stanley, former mueum director, and highlights Hart\rquote s mansion with a full-page color photo.)}{
\f42\insrsid2494850\charrsid12659428 
\par }}