{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f42\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f44\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f45\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f46\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f47\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f48\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f49\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f51\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f52\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f56\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f57\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f59\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid8073742}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2006\mo8\dy6\hr11\min23}{\revtim\yr2006\mo8\dy6\hr11\min25}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords258}{\nofchars1473}{\nofcharsws1728}{\vern16389}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot8073742 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742 THE POWWOW AT WILLIAM S. HART PARK
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742 William S. Hart's life was lived with a great respect for and inte}{\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742 rest in }{\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742 
Native Americans.  The seed of respect was planted already in his childhood while traveling through the }{\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742 Midwest}{\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742  with his fat}{\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742 h}{\f1\fs20\insrsid8073742 
er who was a miller.  During this time, young Bill played with neighboring Sioux children.  It was there that the childr
en and elders taught Bill about Sioux culture and where he learned Sioux language and sign language.  These experiences would ignite an interest that would remain a constant source of inspiration.
\par 
\par Throughout his life, Hart's respect for Native Americans m
anifested itself in many different ways.  During his film career Hart drew on these childhood experiences to create more accurate portrayals of Native Americans, and even asked Native Americans to be actors in his films, a practice that was not common dur
i
ng that time.  Hart became friends with the Great Chief Standing Bear and Chief White Bull.  He was given the great honor of becoming a blood brother to the Sioux as well as an officer in the National League for Justice to American Indians.  Hart's passio
n for Native American culture is also reflected in his home, from his large Navajo rug, bead-work, and basket collections, to his beamed ceilings and doors, hand-painted with Navajo designs.
\par 
\par In 1994 the William S. Hart Park decided that with Hart's legacy 
of respect for Native Americans, his park would be a perfect place to hold a Powwow.  The Hart of the West Powwow has grown by leaps and bounds.  At the first one in 1994, there were only a couple hundred people while last year's Powwow drew a crowd of 25
,000 over a couple of days.
\par 
\par Sabina Miller
\par From Hart of the West
\par 12th Annual Powwow Program
\par 2005
\par }}