{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f401\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f402\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f404\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f405\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f406\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f407\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f408\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f409\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6909\rsid917507\rsid2886938\rsid12518158}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\title OUTSTANDING VOLUNTEER PROFILE}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr18\min52}{\revtim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr20\min3}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords618}
{\nofchars3529}{\nofcharsws4139}{\vern16389}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot12518158 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12518158 OUTSTANDING VOLUNTEER PROFILE
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid2886938 {\insrsid12518158 One of the outstanding volunteer\rquote s recognized at the r
ecent annual meeting of the Friends of Hart Park and Volunteer Recognition Dinner was Caroline McKinley, who catered the event with the help of some other very special Volunteers.
\par Caroline was born in Welland, Ontario, Canada, moved to Virginia, }{\insrsid6909 and then}{\insrsid12518158 
 to Ohio to complete her high school education and earned credentials as an X-Ray Technician, becoming a U.S. citizen in 1968.  She then moved to Michigan and became a Neurovascular Technician and then Manager of the local Yacht Club to allow her more tim
e to spend with her three children.  In 1982, she moved to Sarasota, Florida and became an assistant to art dealer Frank Ohlschlaeger, owner of galleries in Chicago and on Lido Key.  It was Mr. Ohlschlaeger who encouraged her to design jewelry.
\par In 1992, af
ter being widowed, she and her children moved to Placitas, New Mexico and purchased an historic 100 year old adobe situated about 45 miles south of Santa Fe in the foothills of the Sandia Mountains, and converted it to a bed and breakfast, corporate and w
edding facility called \'93Hacienda de Placitas Bed & Breakfast Inn of the Arts\'94
, which she still owns and operates, with the help of her eldest son who recently completed his Masters Degree in Architecture, following a degree in Asian Studies.  The Hacienda c
onversion now offers four independent suites, and three guest houses, one a cowboy vintage log cabin from the Pecos Wilderness reconstructed on the property.  Thus motivated, Caroline\rquote 
s youngest son does historic restoration in Denver.  He also has a black belt in karate and a brown belt in Shao-Lin Kung Fu.  
\par Caroline\rquote s facility sleeps 28 guests and she has catered scores of wedding receptions for as many as 250 people.  She has hosted political dignitaries as well as members of the film industry, includi
ng Goldie Hawn, Kirstie Alley, Edward James Olmos, Michael Martin Murphy and the cast of Saturday Night Live.  The Hacienda has also served as the site for a PBS documentary, a segment of E Tonight featuring the children of Vincent Price.  
\par A self-made chef, Caroline\rquote 
s Bed & Breakfast was designated as one of the top three Bed & Breakfast facilities in the nation by Better Homes & Gardens magazine for the cuisine she serves.  She began by designing special birthday cakes for her children, then wedding cak
es, and then creating delicious and beautifully presented meals.  Her wait staff is second to none, and includes Ms. Jane Garrett who is the granddaughter of Pat Garrett of Billy the Kid fame.  Sharing her love of fine cooking, Caroline\rquote 
s daughter enjoys a career with Bon Appetit Magazine, after worldwide travels working for Frommer\rquote s Budget Travel Magazine.  
\par Caroline has taught French and Oriental cooking, has written a cooking column, has chapters in two cookbooks, was a docent at the Albuquerque Museum
, and was a member of the Carrie Tingley Hospital Foundation House Tour committee for two years.  However, her first love is designing and fabricating jewelry that reflects her penchant for things ethnic and tribal.  Inspired by her parents, who deal in a
ntiques in Ohio, she also loves to collect art, artifacts, religious objects, and unusual furniture from around the world, and somehow makes it work together to create an eclectic but balanced effect.
\par In 2002, she married local attorney Bob McKinley and supported his long time desire to become connected to Hart Park and Museum where they both are volunteer docents.  Currently, she is a docent-in-training at the Pacific Asia Museum in Pasadena.
\par Bob says \'93Caroline is a remarkable woman; a strong self-made woman of many talents, with a golden heart and extraordinary energy.\'94   She hopes to sell the Hacienda in the near future so she can live full time in Southern California, which she calls 
\'93the first place I have lived that feels like home.\'94  They live with t
heir three dogs, Prince Leopold, a funny faced Dachshund they call Leo, a feisty Chihuahua mix called Fava Bean, and an aged and gentle Chow mix named Tundra, and enjoy their horse, Wakefield\rquote s Course, stabled in Placerita Canyon.
\par }}