{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f242\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 03020702040507090a04}Amazone BT;}{\f401\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f402\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f404\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f405\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f406\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f407\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f408\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f409\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f411\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f412\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f414\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f415\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f416\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f417\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f418\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f419\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f2821\fscript\fcharset238\fprq2 Amazone BT CE;}
{\f2824\fscript\fcharset161\fprq2 Amazone BT Greek;}{\f2825\fscript\fcharset162\fprq2 Amazone BT Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid9715\rsid5643199\rsid10818857}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}
{\info{\title Chief Flat Iron by J}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr18\min54}{\revtim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr18\min54}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords349}{\nofchars1995}{\nofcharsws2340}{\vern16389}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale160\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot10818857 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid10818857 Chief Flat Iron by J. Scheurele
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20\insrsid10818857 There are two Joe Scheuerle paintings in the breakfast room, one a small oil Portrait of Chief Flat Iron, Oglala Sioux, who said he was in the B
attle of The Little Big Horn and who later performed in Buffalo Bill's Wild West Traveling Show.  The other, a watercolor, "Gates of Old Fort Kearney," we have written about earlier. 
\par 
\par Joe Scheurele was born in Vienna, Austria in 1873, came to America at a
 young age, and as a youngster in school he would sit in the back of class and create pictures.  Later he spent many of his summers in the West and making portraits of the Indians.  It was probably in the summer of 1909, with the Oglala Sioux, that he con
c
eived our Chief Flat Iron painting.  Scheuerle made his living as an illustrator and lithographer but his Indian portraits were special to him, embodied authentic regalia, and he hung onto many.  When he died in 1948, he left his collection Boilleau Colle
ge in Birmingham, Michigan.  This collection contains over two hundred portraits, and the artist has written notes on the back of many identifying name, tribe, and often other historical, geographical and personal notes.
\par 
\par When he died, Scheuerle's works proved a treasure trove, for now the viewer using these annotated paintings, could identify and appreciate the art of others not so conveniently explained.
\par 
\par I came to better appreciate Scheurle's art when I visited the Palm Desert Museum in Palm Springs.  The
re a Joseph Sharp (American, 1859-1953) "Father of Taos" portrait of Chief Flat Iron hangs.  I recognized Chief Flat Iron immediately from our portrait in the breakfast room.  It was as though I'd just seen an old friend.
\par 
\par When I was recently in our museum
m cleaning my room, Sabina unlocked the gate into the breakfast room and we examined the painting of Flat Iron.  The back is sealed with paper but on the front we found where Scheurle had written in black oil paint this information:
\par 
\par                      In the top right corner           FLAT IRON
\par                                                                   Oglala
\par 
\par                      In bottom left corner             }{\f242\cf1\insrsid10818857\charrsid10818857 With kind regards to William S. Hart}{\i\f1\fs20\cf1\insrsid10818857 
\par 
\par                                                               }{\f1\fs20\cf1\insrsid10818857  J. Scheurele
\par                                                                Pine Ridge Res. S.D. 1909}{\f1\fs20\insrsid10818857 
\par }}