{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f401\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f402\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f404\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f405\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f406\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f407\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f408\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f409\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f411\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f412\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f414\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f415\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f416\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f417\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f418\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f419\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid917507\rsid1971687\rsid2890621}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}
{\info{\title Tesoro Adobe Historic Park}{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr18\min53}{\revtim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr20\min4}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords247}{\nofchars1414}{\nofcharsws1658}{\vern16389}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot2890621 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\insrsid2890621 Tesoro Adobe Historic Park
\par Harry Carey Ranch
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \fi288\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1971687 {\f1\fs20\insrsid2890621 The opening of the new Harry Carey Ranch occurred on November
 3, 2005.  There were many William S. Hart people to help in the celebration.  Harry Carey, Jr.,(Dobe) his sister Ella and his wife Marilyn were honored at the festivities.  Both Harry and his sister were born in the master bedroom.  The ranch has a large
 beautiful adobe home and several out buildings.  All have been restored and are within a 1.1 acre area which is surrounded by new large homes in the Mantalvo Properties.  
\par Harry Carey and family, Mr. Clougherty and family, Montalvo Properties, Supervisor 
Michael Antonovich and others were honored for their extensive work in developing the new park.  The Careys built the house in 1916 and sold it to the Clougherty family in 1947.  The Clougherty family carefully maintained the property making only superfic
i
al changes to the original adobe buildings.  They added a fireplace in the kitchen and their logo may be seen on the draperies and bedspreads.  Some original furnishings are there.  Two special additions were the old national cash register of the Farmer J
ohn Company and a beautiful wood burning old Austrian Emperor heater.  Mr. Clougherty said it was purchased in the 1970's for the comfort of his father when he was there.  The heater was found in Utah and had been in a large mansion.  
\par The builders of the homes nearby accepted the challenge of restoring the area and spent over $100,000 for restoration and $50,000 for trails, parking, fencing and planting of the area.  Also provided was a trust for future needs.  
\par Tesoro Adobe Historic Park will be open for tours on Saturdays.
\par }}