{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f401\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f402\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f404\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f405\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f406\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f407\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f408\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f409\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\f411\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f412\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f414\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f415\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f416\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f417\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f418\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f419\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1262282\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\f0\fbias0 }{\listname ;}\listid2013025478}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid2013025478\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid917507\rsid11360528}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\title                                                                    }{\author Liliana West}{\operator Liliana West}{\creatim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr16\min13}
{\revtim\yr2005\mo12\dy2\hr16\min13}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages15}{\nofwords3207}{\nofchars18285}{\nofcharsws21450}{\vern16389}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot11360528 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid11360528 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs28\insrsid11360528 
\par                                                                    
\par 
\par 
\par                                        The Three Sisters and Kin
\par 
\par         Food is often a popular subject. These stories will tell how our
\par 
\par  world came to have the wonderful plant/food contributions from North 
\par 
\par America, South America, and Mesoamerica in the late 1500\rquote s.  Before that 
\par 
\par time, the Italian cuisine had no tomatoes, The Irish and Russians had  no
\par 
\par potatoes, and the Thai and others, had no chiles.
\par 
\par         When Cortez and Pizzaro came into South and Mesoamerica, they 
\par 
\par pillaged  treasures of gold and silver. But they, and Columbus, also returned
\par 
\par   to the Old World with even greater treasures in food and plants. One 
\par 
\par example, early hunters and gatherers had found a plant with a one inch tasty
\par 
\par  bit\emdash later they planted them, cared for them, saved next year\rquote s seed from
\par 
\par  only the best ears, and hybridized them, and mais-or corn- became a staple
\par 
\par  for the early peoples.  When mais was taken to the Old World, the ear had 
\par 
\par been improved to produce a five or six inch product. Improvements 
\par 
\par continued around the world and today, we may buy ears 14  or 15 inches
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  long.
\par 
\par        Early Americans were grinding corn and making flat breads, using
\par 
\par  kernals for hominy (boiled in the ashes of the fire) and popping. Today the
\par 
\par grain  is the third most used  crop in the world. Corn grows a tall and  strong 
\par 
\par stalk,  beans (green and lima and kidney and others) wrap themselves 
\par 
\par around, and climb the stalk.  Squash, with  it\rquote s large leaves stays low on the
\par 
\par  ground and reaches out, shading the root area of all three and retaining the 
\par 
\par sometimes scarce water. The variety attracts helpful insects and the trio of 
\par 
\par plants use different nutrients from the soil they share.  These are the \'93Three
\par 
\par Sisters\'94 of the early planters.- Corn, Beans, and Squash\emdash all taken back to
\par 
\par  Europe by early sailing ships.\emdash treasures shared with the  world and still
\par 
\par  giving. 
\par 
\par            If you have never had  cooked squash blossom, watch for it in the 
\par 
\par fusion cooking we find  today. It is a delicate and delicious treat, and in the 
\par 
\par new  National Museum of  the American Indian (an adjunct of the 
\par 
\par Smithsonian), squash blossom foods are served seasonally, in their 
\par 
\par restaurants, named }{\f1\fs28\insrsid11360528 Mitsitam\emdash }{\f1\insrsid11360528 a word}{\f1\fs28\insrsid11360528  }{\fs28\insrsid11360528 derived from a Piscataway and 
\par 
\par Delaware Indians meaning \'93Let\rquote s Eat.\'94 Recently, FOHP Board member,
\par 
\par  Joei Bidwell and I had stuffed squash blossoms at  the Campanile on La
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  Cienega in Los Angeles, a much loved, Mediterranean restaurant in an 
\par 
\par historic old building shared by the La Brea Bakery. What a treat!
\par 
\par       Potatoes from the Inca in the Andes were another new gift to the old
\par 
\par  world in the mid 1500\rquote s. Today, there are over two hundred and fifty
\par 
\par varieties, all from early planters\rquote  high Andes and MesoAmerican 
\par 
\par gardens. The Inca were brilliant botanists who cultivated wild plants with
\par 
\par  great success, including an astounding three thousand varieties of  potato in
\par 
\par  a rainbow of color and sizes. In the high Andes, woman\rquote s job, after
\par 
\par  growing, digging up and putting potatoes on the high Andes plateau near
\par 
\par  the home, was to walk on the potatoes \endash frozen through the night by the cold
\par 
\par  and  thawing through the day by the sun\emdash as they thawed, the women
\par 
\par  squeezed the water out with their feet. Freeze, thaw  and squeeze.  This 
\par 
\par process continued until the water content was low enough for safe storage. It 
\par 
\par was called \'93chuno\'94 and is an important part of the South American diet
\par 
\par  today still.  The potato, a new treasure, and the freeze-dry process was
\par 
\par known and used many centuries ago. Incredibly, the Inca and Aztec had 
\par 
\par over two thousand varieties; today over two hundred varieties are in use.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par      Potato chips\emdash a picnic, party, deli and gametime favorite\emdash came later
\par 
\par in Florida when a Native American was the proud chef in a diner.
\par 
\par A man entered with a small party in the early 1900\rquote s.  He ordered fried 
\par 
\par potatoes\emdash and included in the order a message to the chef,
\par 
\par \'93Cut }{\fs32\insrsid11360528 very }{\fs28\insrsid11360528 thin.\'94 }{\insrsid11360528 The cook decided to outdo his customer, shaving the
\par 
\par vegetable, instead of the expected  complaints, there were happy diners\emdash and 
\par 
\par the special potatoes became potato chips, a drawing card to the diner!.
\par 
\par      Once when my husband, Gene, and I were traveling in Sri Lanka, we went
\par 
\par  through  an orchid farm. The orchids were beautiful, but the older man who 
\par 
\par was the manager outshown the flowers with his knowledge of them. One
\par 
\par  story he told us, with apologies that he had no more reprints to give me of 
\par 
\par his work  that had gone into a very erudite magazine, was of the black slave
\par 
\par who had for many years lived on an island in the Caribbean, gone into the
\par 
\par  rainforest where the vanda orchid grew and picked seed  pods for shipping
\par 
\par  to customers around the world to use for their aroma and flavor. On his 
\par 
\par own, he had been  experimenting with an idea he had. He took his idea to
\par 
\par  the company  manager,  who liked it so much that he gave the man: his
\par 
\par  freedom, one hundred dollars, and a boat ride to Florida.  In Florida, 
\par 
\par alone,  knowing nothing about the area, he found a friendly inn and spent
\par 
\par  some money. Unfortunately, he got drunk, and was picked up and jailed for
\par 
\par  drunkeness.  When he got out, he immediately found a ride back to the
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  island where he had worked  and asked to be allowed to do the same job but
\par 
\par  as a free man, with pay. And there he worked \endash  picking pods of the vanda
\par 
\par orchid and shipping them to customers around the world. Perhaps he also 
\par 
\par worked to soak them in alcohol, water, and sugar to create Vanilla-- his own
\par 
\par  discovery , so delicious in flavor and exotic in aroma. Vanda  orchid
\par 
\par pods had been used by native peoples for hundreds of years. They were trade
\par 
\par goods and  taken by ocean-going canoes to other peoples. 
\par 
\par            Another time, Gene and I were in Cancun, Mexico, on the small beach next to our 
\par 
\par hotel,  there was an ancient stone construction\emdash where signal fires had been lighted by 
\par 
\par Maya and Aztec traders to guide the trading canoes on their way. Thus, the next time 
\par 
\par you use that  handy little vanilla extract bottle you may appreciate the source and enjoy it 
\par 
\par even more. Perhaps the same man, in 1841, a clever freed slave named Edmond Albius 
\par 
\par invented a technique for pollinating  vanilla which made it possible to mass-produce
\par 
\par one of the  most labor intensive agricultural product in the world today\emdash one
\par 
\par vanilla bean, can sell for between two to three dollars.
\par 
\par        Another contribution and one very important to the Maya, and later the 
\par 
\par  Aztec, was chocolate. The cacao bean was used as money. Not only a trade item, the 
\par 
\par bean was important in religious rituals and social relationships. It was used as a bitter 
\par 
\par drink often with a dash of chile, and sometimes  ground corn or honey,  made frothy 
\par 
\par by pouring rapidly back and forth between two cups before serving. 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par           Legend has it that the cacao seeds had been brought from Paradise and
\par 
\par  that  they  provided  wisdom and power to the partaker. On Christopher
\par 
\par  Colombus\rquote  fourth visit to the Americas, he returned to Spain with the cacao
\par 
\par bean where for nearly a century, the Spanish monarchy and monasteries kept the
\par 
\par cacao bean a secret for use and trade. They also planted  cacao trees in their 
\par 
\par overseas colonies, enjoying a lucrative monopoly until  an Italian traveler stole the
\par 
\par secret and took it to other European cities. Today Brazil and the Ivory Coast  provide
\par 
\par nearly one-half of the world\rquote s chocolate, but the United States leads the world in cacao
\par 
\par bean importation and chocolate  production.
\par 
\par           For  a classic century-old recipe using chocolate:
\par 
\par 
\par                                                          }{\ul\insrsid11360528 Chocolate}{\insrsid11360528  }{\ul\insrsid11360528 Antoinette}{\insrsid11360528  }{\ul\insrsid11360528 Pudding}{\insrsid11360528 
\par 
\par                                                  3 egg yolks              2 sq. Bakers unsweetened
\par                                                  4 cups milk                      Chocolate, chopped
\par                                                  5 T. Minute tapoca  1 tsp. Vanilla
\par                                                  \'bd cup sugar                     3 egg whites
\par                                                  \'bc tsp. salt                        6 T sugar
\par                                                                      \'bc cup shredded cocoanut 
\par 
\par                                                  Mix egg yolks with small amount of milk.
\par                                                  Add rest of milk, tapioca, sugar, salt, and 
\par                                                  chocolate. Cook on low to med. Stirring
\par                                                  ten to 15 min. until thickens.  Add vanilla and
\par                                                  turn into greased baking dish. (or ramekins).
\par                                                  Beat egg whites until foamy, add sugar, 2 T.
\par                                                  at a  time Beat well after each addition-until 
\par                                                  stands in peaks. Pile on pudding. Sprinkle 
\par                                                 with cocoanut Bake 350 oven to lightly brown.
\par 
\par                         ENJOY!
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par            }{\fs28\insrsid11360528  Tapioca, a root starch derived from the cassava  (manioc) plant,
\par 
\par native to South America and the Maya, who learned to use it for food, 
\par 
\par were clever enough to  remove the cyanide within the root.  They even had a
\par 
\par  use for the cyanide, too, coating their arrow tips to enhance hunting success!
\par 
\par Today,  the cassava root is used in South America and West Indies for food, 
\par 
\par though not always successfully. Sadly, while Gene and I were in Egypt 
\par 
\par  recently, there was on CNN a report of some forty-seven children who died 
\par 
\par  of improperly prepared cassava at a school in the West Indies Happily, our 
\par 
\par little box of Minute Tapioca comes to us well processed.
\par 
\par .     Today, in Indonesia, the cassava roots make raw materials for crackers, 
\par }{\insrsid11360528 
\par toothpaste, paper, and even textiles. In South America, and MesoAmerica it 
\par 
\par is also used for \'93chicha\'94\emdash an alcoholic drink. The drug industry is using 
\par 
\par tapioca in drugs, also. I am trying to find out just how it is used\emdash for the gel 
\par 
\par  capsules? For time release? With each new revelation, I find new questions.
\par 
\par        Another Native American \'93contribution\'94 to the world is tobacco.  
\par 
\par  The Indians used it for rituals and on special occasions.  Today it 
\par 
\par is Big Business.  Also, chicle, the gum that people chew and often throw on
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  the street and sidewalks for the unwary to step in.
\par 
\par            Lobster\emdash a high priced gourmet item today, was food for the
\par 
\par  Narraganset tribe of north-eastern United States, who used lobster traps over two 
\par 
\par thousand years ago.  Interestingly, the traps used by Baltimore  and Boston lobstermen 
\par 
\par today are almost identical in size and shape. The first settlers however from Europe 
\par 
\par evidentally were  not into lobster. In Baltimore, Benjamin Franklin loved to go fishing
\par 
\par  and on a  warm day he would sit on rock or  pier and dangle his feet in the cool water. 
\par 
\par He said that fishing is a perfect thing to do\emdash if it were not for the BUGS (lobster) that
\par 
\par  keep bothering his feet!  Then, about the same time the good City Fathers ,
\par 
\par searching for a way to save money,  (sound like our City Fathers  today?) 
\par 
\par thought: \'93All those lobsters and nothing to do with them!\'94  On the other 
\par 
\par hand, there were prisoners in the local prison who had to be fed at taxpayers\rquote 
\par 
\par  expense.  Solution?  \'93Feed those prisoners on lobster two or three times a week.\'94  It was
\par 
\par  not long before the prisoners began protesting strongly about their lobster diet. The City
\par 
\par  Fathers had to rethink their plan.
\par 
\par          .Of all fruits, only three - the blueberry, the Concord grape and the
\par 
\par cranberry  can trace their roots to North American soil. And of these, none is
\par 
\par  as versatile as the cranberry. The cranberry helped sustain Americans for hundreds of 
\par 
\par years.  Native Americans used cranberries in a variety of foods, the most popular being 
\par 
\par Pemmican, a  high-protein combination of crushed cranberries, dried deer
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  meat and melted fat.  They also used it as a medicine to treat arrow wounds
\par 
\par  and as a dye for rugs and blankets.
\par 
\par            Here is a great (and I promise the tastiest) way  to enjoy cranberries:   
\par 
\par 
\par                                                                                 }{\ul\insrsid11360528 Cranberry}{\insrsid11360528  }{\ul\insrsid11360528 Salad}{\insrsid11360528 
\par 
\par                                                               1 large cherry jello
\par                                                               2 C. hot water
\par                                                               \'bd  C. cold water
\par                                                              1 C. crushed pineapple and syrup
\par                                                              1 C. sugar
\par                                                              1 tsp.  lemon juice
\par                                                              1 bag ground raw cranberries
\par                                                              \'bd C. chopped pecans
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 1\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li4650\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx4650{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360 }\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin4650\itap0\pararsid11360528 {\insrsid11360528 orange rind, grated

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid11360528                                                              1 C. chopped celery
\par                                                              1 C. chopped apple
\par                                                   Dissolve jello and sugar in hot water. Add 
\par                                                  cold water, pineapple and syrup, and lemon
\par                                                  juice. Let start to thicken in refrigerator. Add
\par                                                  remaining ingredients and put in refrigerator 
\par                                                 to jell.  MAKE THE DAY BEFORE USE.
\par                                                 May use fresh or frozen berries. Buy the 
\par                                                 berries when available and throw the bag in
\par                                                 the freezer  for future use (up  to 9 months)
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par            This recipe uses two more products cultivated by early peoples \endash  the
\par 
\par  pecan, from southeast America and the pineapple, cultivated in Brazil and Peru. 
\par 
\par Through the dugout - canoe trading system, it came to the fierce Carib Indians
\par 
\par  where on an early voyage to the Caribbean, Columbus and his crew tasted the sweet 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par fruit and took the first home to Europe where it became an item of celebrity and 
\par 
\par curiosity for the royal gourmet and horticulturist alike. In colonial America, the fruit
\par 
\par  was so sought after that the green grocer, or confectioner, could rent a beautiful prickly 
\par 
\par fruit  to a hostess to use for display at a party and, when returned, to the confectioner, 
\par 
\par where  it would be sold again to a more moneyed host for  eating.
\par 
\par            Gene and I were visiting Lanai (the Pineapple Island) in Hawaii years
\par 
\par  before it had resort hotels and luxury tourist \'93attractions\'94.  The only 
\par 
\par overnight facility was the Dole Fruit Company\rquote s  twelve, or so rooms to house visiting
\par 
\par  company employees  there on business. We even ate in the company dining room.  It 
\par 
\par was a real \'93company town\'94 (or island) as each early
\par 
\par  morning and lunch  (twice) and - off work, the jarring whistle told 
\par 
\par workers what time it was to get up, start work, eat lunch, stop work. Gene hired 
\par 
\par someone to drive us all over the pineapple covered island and  we found a pineapple 
\par 
\par crew and interviewed them about their work., receiving, in return, the two sweetest, 
\par 
\par largest specimens possible. More recently, the }{\ul\insrsid11360528 Honolulu}{\insrsid11360528  }{\ul\insrsid11360528 Advertizer}{\insrsid11360528  reported that 
\par 
\par   the world\rquote s desire for fresh pineapple has increased so that a change has been 
\par 
\par made in cultivating that fruit.  Whereas the  first crop (the largest sized fruit)\emdash  used to
\par 
\par  be the only crop taken, now, because of the demand for the fruit, the second (smaller)
\par 
\par  and third (still smaller) pineapple are harvested before  the plant is discarded and 
\par 
\par a new started.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par        Wild \'93rice\'94was, from the earliest days,  treasured by the woodland Indians, as an
\par 
\par  important part of their feasts,.  They called it Mahnomen, meaning \'93the precious grain\'94, 
\par 
\par sent by the Great Spirit, to serve as their food. Today, in August, the Ojibwe (Chippewa) 
\par 
\par peoples of the Great Lakes assemble to harvest and process wild rice much as their
\par 
\par ancestors did.
\par 
\par  .      Early French voyageurs called it \'93Folles Avoines\'94, which  roughly translates into
\par 
\par \'93wild oats\'94or \'93Riz Sauvage\'94 (wild rice). They  even credited the unusual stature and 
\par 
\par vitality of  certain woodland Indians to their wild rice diet. So called wild rice, from a tall 
\par 
\par aquatic grass,  is technically not a rice, but became known as wild rice. Today, 
\par 
\par the right to harvest the }{\ul\insrsid11360528 wild}{\insrsid11360528  wild rice is reserved for  Indians who go onto the streams and 
\par 
\par lakes in canoes, hold the head of the grain  over the boat,and hit it with a stick to free the 
\par 
\par grains. They have harvested this evolutionarily ancient grain  for thousands of 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sb240\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid11360528 years and,  today it is often called \'93The Caviar of all Grains\'94,  and this 
\par sweet- tasting, nutty textured, seed is the \'93Grain of Choice\'94 for those who 
\par enjoy creating very special dishes.
\par             The domestic turkey is from Mesoamerica originally. From there,
\par  taken back to Spain in Conquistadore ships. (Ambassadors from the Aztec 
\par ruler, Montezuma,  are said to have presented five gold turkeys to Cortez. when they 
\par first  met in 1519). The domesticated turkey was returned to United States by early 
\par settlers,  while the wild turkey was used by Indian and later by settlers. Some Indian
\par  tribes refused to eat the turkey\emdash believing it exhibited cowardice and the Indians 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par were fearful that this highly frowned upon trait would be  transferred to them.The wild 
\par turkey had almost disappeared due to overhunting, but now, responding to 
\par protection and a lot of human encouragement, nearly a third of our states now
\par  have wild turkeys.  Although the wild turkey is quite different from the domestic bird, 
\par it is full of flavor and has dark succulent meat.
\par           Additionally, the turkey quill is excellent for fletching arrows.  Each arrow has 
\par three feather parts, and in order to properly send the arrow on its way, the three feathers
\par must come from the same side of the bird\emdash all three from the right, or all three from the
\par  left .  Benjamin Franklin fought hard against the plan to adopt the eagle for the 
\par national bird.  His choice was that wary, keen sighted, fast runner\emdash the turkey!
\par          Other  treasures from North, South and Mesoamerican  peoples  are the
\par  avocado (the pits of wild avocado dating back to between 8000 and 7000 BC have been
\par  discovered in archaelogical sites in Mexico), tomatoes, spices, cilantro, chiles, (these 
\par spanned the globe in fewer than one hundred years), sweet potato, sunflowers, quinine, 
\par rubber trees, pumpkin, cherimoya, guava, papaya, Jerusalem artichokes, maple sugar sap   
\par (and sugar and candy), peanuts (taken from South America by conquestadors and then 
\par to Africa. Peanuts were  then carried by slavers to the south east United States, where 
\par George Washington Carver made that great American favorite, the Peanut Butter and 
\par Jelly Sandwich possible!. 
\par           A cornicopia of chiles, sweet potato, sunflowers, quinine, rubber trees, papaya,
\par  guava, squash and gourds, pumpkin, cotton and others The greatest treasures to fill the 
\par Spanish galleons sailing home to Europe. These foods  and plants changed the 
\par World forever. 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par are avocado, (They made a salsa  with tomatoes and spices),  cilantro, chiles-
\par all kinds, sweet  potato, sunflowers, quinine, rubber trees, papaya, guava,
\par squash and gourds, pumpkin, cotton, and others\emdash over sixty percent of the 
\par worlds\rquote   food This cornicopia   was the greatest treasure to fill the Spanish
\par  galleons sailing home to Europe. These  foods changed forever the way the
\par  world eats.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par  Suggested pictures:  Natural History Museum\emdash members sale Nov. 1972
\par                                   Squirrel   or Pineapple
\par                                   Maya turkey
\par                                   Gold   coin
\par Sources:         Primary: Lanai  pineapple picking team leader
\par                                      Colombo, Sri Lanka Orchid Garden Manager
\par                       Books:  Michael J. Caduto and Joseph Bruchac
\par                                    American Gardening, Fulcrum Pub, Golden Colorado
\par 
\par                                    Fernando Divina and Marlene Divina
\par                                    Foods of the Americas; Pub by National Museum of                                                            h                                 the American Indian
\par 
\par                                   Beverly Cox and Martin Jacobs
\par                                   Body, Mind and Spirit Native Cooking of the Americas
\par                                   Published by Native People  Magazine
\par 
\par                                 Jared Diamond; Guns, Germs and Steel
\par                                W. W.  Norton and Co. New York London
\par 
\par                                Diana Kennedy;The Art of Mexican Cooking
\par 
\par                                  Magazines and brochures
\par                                  Native Peoples Arts and Lifeways 
\par                                  Sierra   (March and April)
\par                                  Phainopepla, Feb 2004
\par                                  :Los Angeles Times
\par                                  Archaeology; Nov/Dec 2004
\par                                  Hawaiian Newspaper
\par 
\par             
\par                           
\par 
\par 
\par                           
\par 
\par 
\par . 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid11360528  
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par   
\par 
\par }}